All rollcalls with a specific bill, amendment or resolution number should be included.

Votes on rules, on points of order, and on appointments should also be included.

Votes to adjourn or to approve the journal should be excluded.

Here are the "question" and "bill" patterns for three years of IA House proceedings.
(The last number on each line is the frequency count).
All of these rollcalls can be included on the assumption that the question is included in voteview.tsv.

{{{
question: Shall Rule _ be suspended to consider House File _? 1
**question: Shall Rule _ be suspended? 1**
question: Shall amendment _ as amended, be adopted? 16
question: Shall amendment _ be adopted? 186
question: Shall amendment _ to amendment _ be adopted? 27
question: Shall amendment _ to amendment _ to the Senate amendment _ be adopted? 1
question: Shall amendment _ to the Senate amendment _ be adopted? 26
question: Shall amendment _ to the committee amendment _ be adopted? 37
question: Shall the House concur in the Senate amendment _ 3
question: Shall the House on reconsideration pass the bill, the objections (_) of the Governor to the contrary notwithstanding? 2
question: Shall the House recede from its amendment? 1
question: Shall the House reconsider the vote on amendment _ 1
question: Shall the Senate amendment _ to the House amendment, be adopted? 1
question: Shall the bill pass? 931
question: Shall the committee amendment _ as amended, be adopted? 4
question: Shall the committee amendment _ be adopted? 2
**question: Shall the conference committee report be adopted? 2**
question: Shall the joint resolution be adopted and agreed to by the House? 2
question: Shall the joint resolution be adopted and agreed to? 5
question: Shall the motion to defer House File _ prevail? 1
**question: Shall the resolution be adopted? 1**
question: Shall the rules be suspended to consider amendment _ 28
question: Shall the rules be suspended to consider amendment _ as amended? 3
question: Shall the rules be suspended to consider amendment _ to amendment _ 5
question: Shall the rules be suspended to consider amendment _ to the Senate amendment _ 1
question: Shall the rules be suspended to consider amendment _ to the committee amendment _ 11
**question: Shall the rules be suspended? 1**
question: Shall the vote by which amendment _ was adopted be reconsidered? 1
}}}