In the wild, district identifiers can be arbitrary strings, but values in the DISTRICTID field should conform to the following conventions, which are intended to foster invertibility in typical cases:

# The value of DISTRICTID for a particular district should be the same across sessions.
# For numerical district ids, values should be left-padded with 0s so that the string has at least 3 digits.
# The string "TBD" should be used if the value is "to be determined".
# The value "999" should be used for "not applicable", for example for a Lt. Governor. 
# The value "000" is reserved for aliases.
# The value should be selected from [A-Za-z0-9-], that is, the characters in the string should be selected from the set of alphanumeric characters augmented by a hyphen (-). 
# Spaces in actual district names should be replaced by "-".
# For districts represented by more than one person, the seat or position number or letter should be included if possible as a trailing suffix: if the qualifier is a letter, it should be uppercased, e.g "District 14 Seat A" would become 014A, but "Clinton Seat A" would become "Clinton-A"; if the qualifier is an integer, it should be separated from the district identifier proper by a hyphen, e.g. "District 14 Position 2" would become 014-2. The district number should be left-padded with zeros so that it has at least three digits, as in the previous examples.
# Ordinal prefixes should be replaced by cardinal suffixes of the form "-N" where N is a decimal with at least two digits, using "0" as padding. For example "First Washington" would become "Washington-01".
# Ordinary capitalization should be used.
# The DISTRICTID of a senator with an entry in a House pty_nol.txt file should have the form SD-did where "did" is the relevant senatorial district id; similarly, the DISTRICTID of a representative with an entry in a Senate pty_nol.txt file should have the form HD-did.


Here are some examples:

{{{
000            # the entry defines an alias
999            # "known unknown"
TBD            # to be determined
017            # left-padding
018A           # left-padding
Grand_Isle     # special case
Washington-02  # Second Washington
Washington-1   # Washington Position 1
Chittenden-3-6 # A district in Vermont
SD-003         # Senate District 003, in a House pty_nol.txt file
}}}

[[http://followthemoney.org|followthemoney.org]] has proven to be a useful guide in determining DISTRICTID values. 

Note: This policy was applied retrospectively in May, 2013.



