==Synopsis==
===Corrections.csv===
Header:
{{{
State,Chamber,StartYear,EndYear,RegularorSpecial,nol_number,Original_nol_name,CorrectName,CorrectDistrict,CorrectParty,Source
}}}
Example:
{{{
MO,H,2002,2002,reg,NA,"Jones, Robing Wright","Jones, Robin Wright",,NA,Typo
}}}

===nol_number_corrections.csv===
Header:
{{{
State,Chamber,StartYear,EndYear,RegularorSpecial,Original_nol_name,nol_number,steve_number,Notes
}}}
Example:
{{{
MO,h,1996,1996,reg,"Davis",032,"Davis, Dorathea",[canonicalize.NOMINATE]
}}}

==Scripts==
There are various scripts for processing editing directives.  Earlier versions did not support nol_number in Corrections.csv. Some later versions may not require this field.

Here we focus on two scripts that are part of this repository:
* edit.NOMINATE.rb for processing directives in the Corrections.csv format
* updateLocalid.NOMINATE.rb for processing directives in the nol_number_corrections.csv format

These two scripts support special editing directives, e.g. for deletion, adding an alias, declaring a specific name to be the canonical name, and so on.

They also allow comment lines (lines beginning with #) and empty lines.

The scripts are self-documenting via the --help option.

==Corrections.csv==

The five main fields of an editing directive in the Corrections.csv format are:
{{{nol_number,Original_nol_name,CorrectName,CorrectDistrict,CorrectParty}}}

In general, any of these fields may be left blank.

Here is a quick summary of the different forms that are currently recognized:

* Standard: nol_number or Original_nol_name is specified, together with at least one of the other fields
** e.g. to update the DISTRICTID of the entry with LOCALID equal to 012: {{{012, , ,Featherworth-10,}}}
* Addition of alias 
** e.g. to add "Smith, A" as an alias of an existing entry, "Smith, A.": {{{_,"Smith, A","Smith, A.",,}}}
 
== nol_number_corrections ==

Here is a quick summary of the different directives that are supported, focusing on the three main fields of the "nol_number_corrections" format, i.e.
{{{Original_nol_name,nol_number,steve_number}}

In the following, a **distinguished name** is a name for which there is a unique LOCALID (ignoring "000 000" entries) at the time the directive is processed.

* Standard - specify all three fields explicitly
** e.g. {{{SPEAKER,012,023}}}
* Split almost all CamelCase names
** e.g. {{{^,,^}}}
* Guided split (see below)
** e.g. {{{"UnusualSplit, Abc",,"Unusual^Split, A."}}}
* Deletion
** e.g. {{{RESENT: 000,021,DELETE}}}
* Specification of the canonical name
** e.g. {{{"Smith, A.",,*}}}
* Alias creation for an existing **distinguished name**: ALIAS~,~,DISTINGUISHED_NAME
** e.g. {{{Smith J,,"Smith, John A."}}}

The idea with "guided splits" is that on the RHS, each of the parts should already be defined. In the example, "Unusual" and "Split, A." should already have entries in pty_nol.txt (or at least in the in-memory version when the directive is being processed).