==Overview==

This page defines a simple relational model for SRC data in terms of just three global tables:

# legislators.table - a table for legislators
# rollcalls.table - a table for their votes 
# rosetta.table - a "Rosetta Stone" for recording a one-to-one mapping between SRC Global IDs and similar "global ids" defined by other authorities.

Additional tables containing data useful for project management may also be useful. One such table is defined below: aliases.table maps aliases of a legislator to his or her SRC Global ID.

Each relational table can be implemented or represented in a number of ways, e.g. using one or more files. If more than one file is used for any one table, however, it should be possible to derive the full table simply by concatenating the corresponding files.

===Relationship with pty_nol.txt and nomrecord.txt files===
The "legislators" and "rollcalls" tables consolidate the information in "pty_nol.txt" and "nomrecord.txt" files, eliminating the need for "local ids" and the dependence on the "ST/st_cyy/session" directory structure.  However SRC Global ID values are derived in part from localid values, as explained below.

===Abbreviations and Conventions===
On this page:
* SRC stands for the "State Roll Call" project
* GID is the SRC global id (this project's global id of a legislator)
* "tsv" stands for "tab-separated values"
* "ftm" is an abbreviation referring to "followthemoney.org"
* "CSMSP" refers to the Center for the Study of Money in State Politics.

In addition:

* lid = local id of a legislator (three digits)
* pid = party id (three digits)
* did = district id (a string without spaces)
* vv = voting vector (as in nomrecord.txt)
* SES = session indicator (e.g. "reg" for "regular", "ss" for "special session")

Required fields are marked with an asterisk (*).

==Global IDs==
GID = STyyyyCnnn

where:

ST is the standard uppercase two-letter abbreviation for the State

yyyy is a year (generally the first year in which we have a voting vector, ignoring any legislative days in Nov and Dec)

C is U or L (upper or lower house)

nnn is the corresponding three-digit lid

The GID selected for an individual must correspond to an existing lid in the SRC collection of data.


===Current per-session format===

{{{
pty_nol.txt:   lid name pid did
nomrecord.txt: lid name vv
}}}

==Schema for Global Tables==

In the following descriptions, the field names are shown separated by spaces.  

For reasons of simplicity, the .tsv format is preferred for implementations of any of the tables as files.

===legislators.table===
This table is logically derived from legislator.tsv files.  Every pair of entries should be distinguishable without reference to the GID field.

{{{
FIELDS: *GID *surname firstname middlenames alt_surnames suffix nickname birthyear gender comment
}}}

Notice that there is no pid. This is because a legislator's party id may change.
Notice also that there is no field for any external global id, but of course the comment field could include references to such ids.

===rollcalls.table===
This table consolidates the information in nomrecord.txt and pty_nol.txt files.
{{{
FIELDS: *ST *yyyy *C *SES *GID:*pid *did *vv
}}}

This table could be implemented as a .txt file because //did// has no spaces, but note that both //did// and //vv// are of variable lengths, so a fixed-width implementation would be impractical as there are district ids such as "Berkshire-Hampden-Hampshire-Franklin".

===rosetta.table===
{{{
FIELDS: *GID FTM Klarner OpenStates votesmart
}}}

Here:
* FTM is the //unique_candidate_id// defined by followthemoney.org (aka CSMSP - Center for the Study of Money in State Politics).

* Klarner is the id defined by [[http://www.indstate.edu/polisci/klarnerpolitics.htm|http://www.indstate.edu/polisci/klarnerpolitics.htm]]

* OpenStates is the OpenStates //leg_id// ([[http://openstates.org/api/legislators|http://openstates.org/api/legislators]])

* votesmart is //candidateId// used in the URL {{{http://votesmart.org/candidate/biography/#{candidateId} }}}
or {{{http://api.votesmart.org/CandidateBio.getBio?key=<your_key>&candidateId=#{candidateId} }}} (see [[http://api.votesmart.org/docs/Candidates.html|http://api.votesmart.org/docs/Candidates.html]])

This table is intended to record the correspondence between GID and "global ids" defined by other authorities.  If an external authority defines more than one id for an individual, then such ids should not be recorded in this table.  The //aliases.table// format can be used to record the full set of ids defined by an external authority.)

===aliases.table===
"aliases.table" is a kind of "Rosetta Stone" for recording globally unique "aliases":

{{{
FIELDS: *GID *alias
}}}

Here, the values of "alias" may contain spaces and will typically include an authority as the "alias" must be globally unique.

This table defines a many-to-one mapping from aliases to GIDs, e.g.:

  GID ST yyyy C SES lid

Alternative names for a legislator can be specified in legislators.table.

===Notes===

# records in a .tsv file need not have trailing tabs.
# By convention, DISTRICTID (did) values have no spaces.
# The chamber code for Nebraska is U (i.e. the value of C for NE is U).
