== Welcome ==

Welcome to the "states50" State Rollcall Project.  This webpage is under construction.

The SRC repository includes data, scripts, and some documentation.  For notes on accessing these, see:
* [[Accessing%20the%20Contents%20of%20the%20SRC%20Repository|Accessing the Contents of the SRC Repository]]

== Online Documentation ==
* [[Terminology]]
* [[District%20Identifiers|District Identifiers]]
* [[Party%20Codes|Party Codes]]
* [[Schema%20for%20Additional%20Data|Schema for Additional Data]]
* [[Terminology#!voting-vector|Voting Codes]]

Early drafts:
* [[Sequential Tag-Value Format]]
* [[Format for Editing Directives]] (Corrections.csv and nol_number_corrections.csv)
* [[Character%20Encoding|Character Encoding]]
* [[Criteria for Inclusion of Rollcalls]]
* [[Global Tables]]
* [[Disclaimers]]

==Snapshot==

* [[https://docs.zoho.com/file/udqvh0ef8d8d6c5de4aa1a5e4b5db429588cd|spreadsheet]]

=== Wiki features ===

This wiki uses the [[http://www.wikicreole.org/|Creole]] syntax, and is fully compatible with the 1.0 specification.

The wiki itself is actually a mercurial repository, which means you can clone it, edit it locally/offline, add images or any other file type, and push it back to us. It will be live immediately.

To clone the wiki repository:

{{{
$ hg clone https://bitbucket.org/states50/nominate/wiki
}}}

Wiki pages are normal files, with the .wiki extension. You can edit them locally, as well as creating new ones.

=== Syntax highlighting ===

You can also highlight snippets of text, we use the excellent [[http://www.pygments.org/|Pygments]] library.

See also [[http://pygments.org/docs/lexers/|the vast library of Pygment lexers]]. The 'short name' or the 'mimetype' of anything in there can be used here.