== Schema for supplementary files in the "nominate" repository. ==

In whichever directory there is a nomrecord.txt file, the following additional files are defined:

* [[Schema%20for%20Additional%20Data#!file-nomrecord2tsv|nomrecord2.tsv]] - one line of data giving supplementary information about entries in the corresponding nomrecord.txt file.
* [[Schema%20for%20Additional%20Data#!file-legislatortsv|legislator.tsv]] - additional information about legislators
* [[Schema%20for%20Additional%20Data#!file-voteviewtsv|voteview.tsv]]   - information about votes, similar to that provided at voteview.com

These additional files should be in "tab-separated value" format (suffix .tsv),
with a header row.  In this document, however, the examples will use
"," as the field delimiter.

The "pipe" character ("|") is used in two ways:
* in this document, it signifies a choice, e.g. reg|ss|ss1 means one of the three indicated options.
* in certain fields, it serves as a separator between multiple values.

Required fields are marked with an asterisk (*).

Records in a .tsv file need not have trailing tabs.

Unless otherwise stated, in this document indexing starts at 1.

Within a field, leading and trailing whitespace is never significant but should be avoided.

CONTROLLED signifies that the values in a field should be selected from the
controlled vocabulary for that field.  See the Codebook.

In this document, the "Header" line may be spread over more than one line, but in the
data files, the header line is just one line.


== File: nomrecord2.tsv ==

==== Header: ====
STATE,CHAMBER,SESSION,CODES,YEAR1,NVOTES1,ISCHRONOLOGICAL1,YEAR2,NVOTES2,ISCHRONOLOGICAL2,COMMENT

==== Examples: ====
{{{TN,U,reg,169,2003,77,?,2003}}}

{{{TN,U,reg,01234569,2003,77,?,2003}}}

This file will contain just one data record.  All fields except the last four are required, but NVOTES2 and ISCHRONOLOGICAL2 must be provided if YEAR2 is specified and differs from YEAR1.

* *STATE:   two-letter upper-case abbreviation (CONTROLLED)
* *CHAMBER: L|U (L for lower house, U for upper house)
* *SESSION: reg|ss|ss1|ss2|org (following current practice) or a combination of these, e.g. reg+ss (CONTROLLED)
* *CODES:   a string of digits (e.g. "01679") in numerically increasing order, reflecting the vote encoding scheme used in the corresponding nomrecord.txt file; the vote codes are:
** 0=not a member
** 1=Yea
** 2=Paired Yea
** 3=Announced Yea
** 4=Announced Nay
** 5=Paired Nay
** 6=Nay
** 7=Present but uncertain (i.e. details are unresolved)
** 9=Not Voting                   

* *YEAR1:   the first year (format: YYYY)
* *NVOTES1: number of votes in the vote vector in that year
* *ISCHRONOLOGICAL1: are the votes in the vote vector for YEAR1 in chronological order? 
{{{
         Y means strictly chronological;
         D means chronological at least by day;
         ? means unknown or TBD;
         N means known not to be chronological (globally or by day)
}}}
        
*  YEAR2:   the second year (format: YYYY) if different from YEAR1, otherwise empty or YEAR1
*  NVOTES2: as for NVOTES1 but for YEAR2 
*  ISCHRONOLOGICAL2: as for ISCHRONOLOGICAL1 but for YEAR2
*  COMMENT: an informative string, e.g. about the quality of the corresponding data.


== File: legislator.tsv ==
==== Header: ====
LOCALID,SURNAME,FIRSTNAME,MIDDLENAMES,ALTERNATIVESURNAMES,SUFFIX,NICKNAME,
VARIANTS,BIRTHYEAR,GENDER,GLOBALID,
Votesmart,OpenStates,CSMSP,Klarner,Bonica,COMMENT

**In each edition of the StateRollCall data, the combination of descriptive fields of a legislator should be unique.**

The "descriptive fields" are:

{{{SURNAME,FIRSTNAME,MIDDLENAMES,ALTERNATIVESURNAMES,SUFFIX,NICKNAME,BIRTHYEAR,GENDER}}}

(VARIANTS is not regarded as descriptive because it is conceptually an unordered list.)
==== Example: ====
{{{097,Clemens,Samuel,L.,Twain,,Sam,Mark Twain|Mark (Samuel Langhorne Clemens) Twain,1835,M,}}}

Except possibly in the VARIANTS field, all components of a person's name should be given using the normal conventions regarding upper and lower case, e.g. John A. Smith, III.

In the FIRSTNAME and MIDDLENAMES fields, periods for initials should be used, e.g. "L.".

In the following, "+" signifies that at least one of BIRTHYEAR or full FIRSTNAME should be given.

* * LOCALID   - the id (normally three digits including leading 0s) in the first field in nomrecord.txt
* * SURNAME   - normally as listed in the vote record 
* + FIRSTNAME - first name or at least first initial; at least one of BIRTHYEAR or full FIRSTNAME should be given
*  MIDDLENAMES - preferably all middle names, or at least initials
*  ALTERNATIVESURNAMES - multiple alternatives should be separated by | (e.g. "Smith|Jones")
*  SUFFIX     - the suffix or suffixes, for example: Jr. III
*  NICKNAME   - usually a single name, without parentheses or quotation marks, for example: Jim
*  VARIANTS   - pipe-delimited variants of the full name that cannot be directly inferred from the other name fields (see below).
* + BIRTHYEAR  - YYYY
*  GENDER     - M|F
*  GLOBALID   - the global id for this project, of the form: STyyyyCNNN where ST is a two-letter state abbreviation, yyyy is a year, C is U or L (for upper or lower house), and NNN consists of three digits.
*  Votesmart  - id
*  OpenStates - id
*  CSMSP      - id
*  Klarner    - id
*  Bonica     - id
*  COMMENT

Note on VARIANTS:  

The VARIANTS field for "Chih-Long Lin" might be: C.-L. Lin|Chih-long Lin|LIN Qilong

For nicknames, the form(s) used in official records can be used, e.g. "Buzz (Tim) Lightyear".

           Standard variants based on the other naming fields should not be included.

[Detailed examples omitted here]

== File: voteview.tsv ==

==== Header: ====
SEQUENCE,DAYCOUNT,date,session,number,bill,question,result,description,yeatotal,naytotal,
  membertotal,
  type,
  vote_id

==== Example: ====
{{{23,1,2003-02-06,reg,,Senate Bill No. 24,,passed,,25,0}}}

SEQUENCE is required and corresponds to the column number in the voting vector
given in the corresponding nomrecord.txt file.

The fields from "date" to "naytotal" are defined as at voteview.com
(see e.g. http://voteview.com/house111.htm)

To ensure traceability, given the context (state and house) and the values of date and session, the information in the {DAYCOUNT, number, bill, question} fields should be sufficient to identify the rollcall in the official records unambiguously.

Ideally:
  * there should be a one-to-one correspondence between the data records
    in the votes file and the voting vector in the nomrecord.txt file.
  * ignoring the header row, the n-th row of data in voteview.tsv file
    should correspond to the n-th vote in the corresponding vector of
    votes.

Here is a more detailed description:

* * SEQUENCE:     column number (counting from 1) in the voting vector
*  DAYCOUNT:     an integer reflecting the relative ordering of rollcalls on the given date
* * date:         format YYYY-MM-DD
* * session:      reg|ss|ss1|ss2|org (CONTROLLED)
*  number:       the number or id for the vote as given in the record
*  bill:         e.g. "H R 2997" (a short identifier as given in the official records)
*  question:     e.g. "Bradford" (generally, an initial segment of a longer identifier as given in the official records)
* * result:       e.g. Failed | Passed
*  description:  a string from the official records
* * yeatotal:     decimal count
* * naytotal:     decimal count
*  membertotal:  decimal count of the number of legislators eligible to vote if known (excludes non-members): 
                CONSTRAINT: yeatotal + naytotal <= membertotal 
*  type:          first reading | veto override | committee vote | ... 
                    [loosely controlled vocab, by state]
*  vote_id:     Open States Vote ID