===Canonical Name===
A distinguished name for a legislator.  This name will be used when coalescing voting vectors.

Within the context of a pty_nol.txt file, the canonical name for a LOCALID exists if and only if there is a single NAME associated with that LOCALID, ignoring all entries in which both the PARTYID and DISTRICTID have been zeroed-out.  

===Coalescence===
The process of combining two or more [[Terminology#!voting-vector|voting vectors]] of a single legislator into a single voting vector. For example, the voting vector resulting from combining 191 and 969 is 161.  See [[Format_for_Editing_Directives#!coalescence-of-voting-vectors | Coalescence of Voting Vectors]] for details about a script for coalescing two or more voting vectors.

===Localid===
In the context of a particular pair of pty_nol.txt and nomrecord.txt files, the "localid" defines the correspondence between voting vectors and legislators: every voting vector must have a distinct three-digit decimal identifier, and every such identifier must have a single entry (ignoring "000 000" entries for aliases) in the corresponding pty_nol.txt file.

Every legislator who has a voting vector in a particular STATE-CHAMBER-YEAR or STATE-CHAMBER-YEAR1-YEAR2 context should have a distinct identifier in the form of a three-digit decimal number in the range 001 through 499. We shall refer to this as the primary local identifier.

If a legislator casts a vote as a member of a second party in the same STATE-CHAMBER-YEARS context, that legislator should have a second voting vector. The localid of the second voting vector should be 500 plus the primary local identifier.

In summary:
{{{
   lid1 lies in the range 001 through 499
   lid2 = 500 + lid1
}}}


Within a particular STATE-CHAMBER-YEAR or STATE-CHAMBER-YEAR1-YEAR2 context, a particular legislator-party combination should have a single localid.
 
===nomrecord.txt file===
A file containing details about the voting history of legislators for a particular state and session.

Each row contains the following fields:
* LOCALID - three digit legislator id, unique within the context of this state and session.
* NAME - a character string
* VOTINGVECTOR - a character string with each vote encoded as a decimal digit

A **well-formed** nomrecord.txt file adheres to the following requirements:
* Column 1: blank
* Columns 2 through 4: blank or three-digit LOCALID
* Column 5: blank
* Columns 6 through 35: left-justified string (intended for the NAME field) 
* Columns 36 and up: voting vector of the same length for every record

A legislator NAME cannot be more than 27 characters (ignoring trailing blanks), as that is the width of the NAME field in a pty_nol.txt file (columns 6 through 32).

A correctly formated nomrecord.txt file is said to be **normalized** if each LOCALID appears at most once.

===pty_nol.txt file===

A file providing information about legislators for a particular state and session.  

Apart from the first line, each line contains values for:
* LOCALID - a three-digit identifier for a legislator
* NAME - a canonical name or alias for a legislator
* PARTYID - a three-digit party code for the legislator
* DISTRICTID - a character string (often a three-digit identifier)

A **well-formed** pty_nol.txt file adheres to the following requirements:
* The first line has a string of the following form beginning in column 1: " cols = N" where N is a decimal integer
* All other lines are formatted as follows:
** Column 1: blank
** Columns 2 through 4: blank or three-digit LOCALID
** Column 5: blank
** Columns 6 through 32: left-justified non-empty string intended for the NAME field 
** Columns 33 through 35: 000 or a three-digit string intended for the PARTYID
** Column 36: blank
** Columns 37 and up: 000 or a left-justified string for DISTRICTID (often a three-digit code)

When a pty_nol.txt file meets the following additional constraints, it is said to be **normalized**:
* for each pair of values (LOCALID, NAME), there is at most one entry with those values.
* there is exactly one **canonical name** per LOCALID.
* the PARTYID and DISTRICTID of all non-canonical names are both "000".
* neither the PARTYID nor the DISTRICTID of a canonical name are "000".
* each individual has exactly one canonical name, and that name is distinct from all other canonical names in the file.

An entry in a pty_nol.txt file is said to have been "zeroed-out" if the PARTYID and DISTRICTID fields both have the value "000".

A pair of pty_nol.txt and nomrecord.txt files is said to be **jointly normalized** if each is normalized, and if in addition:
* the value N given on the first line of the pty_nol.txt file is the number of characters on every line in nomrecord.txt.
* ignoring entries in pty_nol.txt that have been "zeroed-out", for every LOCALID in nomrecord.txt, there is exactly one entry in pty_nol.txt with the same LOCALID. 

====Vacancies====
If a seat is vacant during a session, the value of NAME should be "(Vacant)".  The entry would therefore have the form:

{{{
nnn (Vacant)                    999 districtid
}}}
where "nnn" is a valid LOCALID and "districtid" is the district id.


====Change of Party====
If an individual changes party affiliation within a session, there should be separate entries in each of the two files pty_nol.txt and nomrecord.txt.  The localid of the later entry should be 500 plus the localid of the earlier entry.

====Senators in House Sessions and Representatives in Senate Sessions====
The districtid of a senator with an entry in a House pty_nol.txt file should have the form SD-did where "did" is the relevant senatorial district id; similarly, the districtid of a representative with an entry in a Senate pty_nol.txt file should have the form HD-did.

==Voting Vector==
A string of decimal digits reflecting the voting record of a single legislator:

* 0 - not a member
* 1 - yea
* 2 - paired yea
* 3 - announced yea
* 4 - announced nay
* 5 - paired nay
* 6 - nay
* 7 - unresolved (conflicting evidence)
* 9 - no vote recorded

Within a single [[Terminology#!nomrecordtxt-file|nomrecord.txt]] file, the voting vectors should all be of the same length, and the results of a particular rollcall should all be represented at the same position.  

If an acting representative has been appointed, his or her vote should be recorded under his or her name, and a "9" should be used for the House or Senate member who is on leave.

Usually, the voting vector is in chronological order, but that is currently not a requirement.  Details about this should be recorded in [[Schema%20for%20Additional%20Data#!file-nomrecord2tsv|nomrecord2.tsv]].